
## Theorem 1A.

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a group, with $g\in G$. The set 
$$\langle g\rangle=\{g^k\;|\;k\in \mathbb{Z}\}$$
is a subgroup of $G$, written $(\langle g\rangle,\;\star)$. For any subgroup $(H,\;\star)$ of $(G,\;\star)$, the statement that 
$$(\forall g\in H)(\langle g\rangle \subseteq H)$$
is true.

## Theorem 1B.

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a group.
$$\begin{align*}(\exists g\in G)(\langle g\rangle =G)&\iff (G,\;\star)\;\text{is a cyclic group}\\&\iff \langle g\rangle\;\text{is a cyclic subgroup}\\&\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\text{of }(G,\;\star)\text{ generated by }g\end{align*}$$

## Theorem 1C.

Let $g$ be an element of a group $(G,\;\star)$. We make two statements about the order of $g$, written $o(g)=n$.

- $(\exists k\in \mathbb{N})(g^k=1_G)\implies (\exists n\in \mathbb{N})(o(g)=n=min(\{k\;|\;g^k=1_G\}))$
- $[g^k=1_G\iff k=0]\implies o(g)=\infty$

## Theorem 2.

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a group, and suppose that $(\exists g\in G)(o(g)=n)$. Then:

- $g^k=1_G\iff n|k$
- $g^k=g^m\iff k\equiv m\mod n$
- $\langle g\rangle =\{g^k\;|\;k\in\mathbb{Z}\}=\{1_G,g,g^2,\dots,g^{n-1}\}$

## Theorem 3.

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a group, and suppose that $(\exists g\in G)(o(g)=\infty)$. Then:

- $g^k=1_G\iff k=0$
- $g^k=g^m\iff k=m$
- $\langle g \rangle =\{g^k\;|\;k\in \mathbb{Z}\}=\{\dots,g^{-1},g^{-1},1_G,g,g^2,\dots\}$

### Corollary.

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a group. Then
$$(\forall g\in G)(o(g)=|\langle g\rangle|)$$

## Theorem 4.

Let $\sigma\in S_n$ with factorization $\sigma=\gamma_1\gamma_2\dots\gamma_n$ into disjoint cycles. Then $o(\sigma)=lcm(o(\gamma_1),\;o(\gamma_2),\dots,o(\gamma_n))$, where $o(\gamma_i)$ is in fact the number of places in the $i$th disjoint cycle.

## Theorem 5.

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a group, with $g\in G$. Then
$$d\geq 1|n\implies o(g^d)=\frac{n}{d}$$

## Theorem 6. 

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a group.
$$(G,\;\star)\;\text{is cyclic}\implies(G,\;\star)\;\text{is abelian}$$

## Theorem 7. 

If $(H,\;\star)\leq(G,\;\star)$, then:
$$(G,\;\star)\;\text{is cyclic}\implies (H,\;\star)\;\text{is cyclic}$$

## Theorem 8.

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a cyclic group with $G=\langle g \rangle$, where $o(g)=n$. Then
$$G=\langle g^k\rangle\iff\gcd(k,\;n)=1$$

## Theorem 9.
*Fundamental Theorem of Finite Cyclic Groups*

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a cyclic group with $G=\langle g \rangle$ and $o(g)=n$. Then:

- $(H,\;\star)\leq(G,\;\star)\;\wedge\;H=\langle h \rangle\implies (H,\;\star)\;\text{is cyclic }\wedge o(h)|n$
- The set of all subgroups of $G$ is uniquely $\big\{\langle g^{n/d}\rangle\;\big|\;d|n\big\}$.

## Definition.

Let $(G,\;\star)$ be a group, $X\subseteq G$, $|X|>0$.
$$\langle X\rangle=\{x_1^{k_{1}}\star x_2^{k_2}\star\dots \star x_m^{k_m}\;|\;x_i\in X\;\wedge\;k_i\in\mathbb{Z}\;\wedge\;m\geq 1\}$$

## Theorem 10.

- $(\langle X\rangle,\;\star)\leq(G,\;\star)\;\wedge\;X\subset \langle X\rangle$
- $(H,\;\star)\leq (G,\;\star)\;\wedge\;X\subseteq H\implies \langle X\rangle \subseteq H$

