
# ASTRONOMY 1101 – THE SOLAR SYSTEM

**Spring 2024**

**Section 1:** MWF 8:30 – 9:20 AM
**Room:** Nicholson 130

**Instructor:** Dr. Colin F Turley
**Email:** turley1@lsu.edu
**Office:** 361 Nicholson Hall

**Class announcements will be made through email and Moodle**

**Office Hours:** Tuesday and Thursday 1 pm, and by request

## Recommended Texts (not required):

* **Universe, 11th Edition**, by Freedman, Geller, and Kaufmann, published by Freeman (ISBN 9781319039448)
* **21st Century Astronomy: The Solar System (Sixth Edition)**, by Blumenthal, Kay, and Palen, published by W. W. Norton & Company (ISBN 9780393675528)
* **OpenStax Astronomy** by Fraknoi, Morrison, Wolff, et al, published online: [https://openstax.org/details/books/astronomy](https://openstax.org/details/books/astronomy)


## Course Content:

1. Introduction. Time, seasons, the motion of the Sun, Moon, and Stars
2. Eclipses, orbits, and the laws of planetary motion
3. The nature of light, optical devices
4. Formation of the solar system
5. Earth, the Moon, and the terrestrial planets
6. Gas giants, Ice giants and their moons
7. Dwarf planets, asteroids, meteors, and comets
8. Exoplanets and life in the universe
9. Special topics


## Learning Outcomes:

By the end of this course, students will be able to:

* Understand the basics of light and simple optical devices.
* Understand the solar system and our place in the universe.
* Appreciate the complexities needed for complex life to arise.


## Lecture Format:

Each lecture will introduce material and may include demonstrations, collaborative activities, and occasional quizzes. In-class discussions are encouraged. Discussion, questions, and quizzes will utilize the TopHat platform ([https:/tophat.com](https:/tophat.com)). All students need to sign up for this platform using the TopHat class code (657841).


## Exam Schedule:

* **Midterm 1:** Friday, February 14, 2025 (in class)
* **Midterm 2:** Wednesday, March 19, 2025 (in class)
* **Final Exam:** May 5-7, 2025


## Grading:

* **Midterm 1:** 20%
* **Midterm 2:** 20%
* **Final Exam:** 30%
* **Homework:** 20%
* **Class Participation:** 10%

**Grading Rubric:**

| Letter Grade | Percentage |
|---|---|
| A+ | 100-96 |
| A | 95-90 |
| A- | 89-85 |
| B+ | 84-82 |
| B | 81-78 |
| B- | 77-75 |
| C+ | 74-70 |
| C | 69-66 |
| C- | 65-60 |
| D+ | 59-57 |
| D | 56-53 |
| D- | 52-45 |
| F | 45 or below |


## Late Homework:

Late assignments will not be accepted without prior approval.


## Academic Dishonesty:

Academic dishonesty (plagiarism, copying, cheating) will result in disciplinary action.


## Missed Exams:

Make-up exams will only be given with prior authorization from the instructor.


## Calendar:

* **Jan 13:** First lecture
* **Jan 20:** No Class (Martin Luther King Jr. Day)
* **Jan 22:** Last day to drop without a "W"
* **Jan 23:** Last day to add/change sections & Last day for Grade Exclusion petition
* **Feb 14:** Midterm Exam 1
* **Mar 3-5:** Mardi Gras Holiday
* **Mar 19:** Midterm Exam 2
* **Mar 28:** Last day to drop courses/resign
* **Mar 31 - Apr 4:** Spring Break
* **Apr 18:** Good Friday Holiday
* **May 2:** Last Lecture
* **May 5-9:** Exam Week

## Disability Policy:

Students with disabilities needing accommodations should contact the Office of Disability Services ([http://www.lsu.edu/disability](http://www.lsu.edu/disability)) and the instructor as soon as possible.

## Inclusion, Innovation, and Engagement:

LSU is committed to a respectful environment for all.  If your performance is affected by outside factors or if you are made uncomfortable by anything said in class, please talk to the instructor. Anonymous feedback can be submitted here: [https://forms.gle/XnETWYmBkmzu6Ciy6](https://forms.gle/XnETWYmBkmzu6Ciy6). Please also inform the instructor of any inaccuracies in your name/information on the class roster.


## Tentative Topics Schedule:

**(Please refer to the original document for the detailed week-by-week topic schedule)** 